Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we looked previously at a Book Dictionary which contained a variety of information about one book
but it had no room to store information about a second book and let alone what would happen if we had
a torrid and for book or one way to tackle this problem is to make a list of books in which each book
is a dictionary of information about that book.
So let's take a look.
I'm going to pause this letter now and just create three dictionaries of books information.
So back to you now in just a moment.
Hey everybody.
So here we go.
And you can see my book details.
So I've created book Zero book one book too.
So I have name.
I have book name I have author I have the price and I have the publisher.
So some solid book details in there.
Now what we need to do is we need to take each of these books dictionaries and add them to a list.
So let's collarless books because that's exactly what it is.
Let's create a list with square brackets and we have book Zero color book one color book to come up.
And so I know because at the end of our list.
OK.
So we have dictionaries and we have a list.
Now we're going to create a for loop for book and books.
OK so for each book and books print book OK.
Now what does that get us.
Well let's have a look.
There we go.
It puts in admittedly not exactly user friendly format but still it outputs all the information from
each dictionary.
Let's look at another example and go back to our stationery store program.
Let's create a new empty list for storing stock items.
Ok so I've just created a new file.
And as you can see I have added some comments at the top.
So the first thing you want to do is create an empty list so stock items or stock items equals and there
we go an empty list.
OK.
Now what we want to do is you want to create some stock items.
So let's create 50 pens all of the same type of blue ballpoint one ninety nine.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So let's add in a comment because this is something that we haven't really done before although we have
seen it so make 50 blue pants.
OK.
So for blue pants in range we've seen the range function before.
So we're going to go 0 to 50 and that's going to create 50 instances of blue pant colon.
And what we're going to say is a new blue pen
equals.
Now here we go we're creating a dictionary.
So we get color I'll leave it to you for my American friends blue
color type
ballpoint
comma and then price
colon one point nine nine.
There we go OK.
Next for stock items.
So for a list stock items.
So a catch or two new blue pen OK.
Let's see what that does.
That's just a little curiosity experiment.
Let's just print out blue pen print let's print up stock items print stock items and let's see what
that gives us.
There we go.
Fifty Bluepoint Pence all price at 199th.
OK.
Not bad.
So let's remove our print statement there because we don't need it now pipe and considers each of these
a separate object.
This allows us to modify each pen individually.
And why might you ask.
We want to change each pan individually.
Well what happens when we sell one.
Obviously we have to reduce our list by one or if we run a sale and we want to reduce the price of only
half our stock to change Japan's price we can use a for loop and an IF statement.
Let's change the price of the first five pounds from one 99 to 99 Cent.
So let's as we say that's out in the comment here.
Changing the price of the first five pence.
OK.
So for blue and in-stock items.
So for blue pens in stock items we take the first five call.
So if these first five blue pens so blue pen is priced as
1 9 9
then make its price.
Blue Pen
make its price zero point nine nine.
OK.
Now what we want to do is we want to print out those four five blue pants.
So for blue pen and stock items zero to fives we're only working with the first five again print blue
pen.
OK.
Let's see if that works.
Perfect.
So we have our colors the same.
Our prices got 0.9 9 and a type as ballpoint.
So as you will see it's common to store a number of dictionaries in a list with each dictionary containing
many kinds of information about one object you might create a dictionary for each user of a website
and then store individual dictionaries in a list called user.
So you might create a dictionary of user attributes.
What we've done here is these two examples we've created a dictionary of books Sortiment a list and
then we've seen how to change an item in a dictionary.
Hokus has been helpful.
And as always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me and I'll see you in the
next lecture.
Thank you.